--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COST Association AISBL 
Avenue du Boulevard – Bolwerklaan 21 | 1210 Brussels, Belgium 
T +32 (0)2 533 3800 | office@cost.eu | www.cost.eu 
Brussels, 23 November 2023 
 
European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) 
OPEN CALL FOR PROPOSALS – COLLECTION OC-2024-1 
COST invites European researchers and innovators to submit proposals for Actions aiming to address 
scientific, technological and societal challenges. These challenges shall be addressed by promoting and 
spreading excellence, fostering interdisciplinary research for breakthrough science and empowering 
and retaining young researchers and innovators1. 
COST brings together researchers and innovators to jointly develop ideas and initiatives across all fields 
of science and technology through cooperation across Europe and beyond. COST encourages and 
fosters trans-, multi- and interdisciplinary approaches by integrating researchers and innovators from 
different fields and organisations such as universities, research centres, or companies. 
COST does not fund research itself, but supports networking via different activities such as meetings, 
short-term scientific missions, training schools and dissemination products as part of COST Actions.  
Proposals should reflect the main characteristics of COST Actions, namely, providing for knowledge 
sharing, creation and application, being excellence-driven, open and output-oriented while aiming at 
strengthening the scientific and technological basis of the proposed topic(s). 
Proposals are evaluated against criteria of S&T excellence, networking excellence, impact, and 
implementation. Proposals for a COST Action must represent a network composed of proposers from 
at least seven (7) COST Full or Cooperating Members amongst which at least 50% shall be from COST 
Inclusiveness Target Countries (ITC). 
Proposals should also respond to the COST Excellence and Inclusiveness Policy, which aims to provide 
collaboration opportunities to all researchers and innovators in countries that are COST Members. 
Participation among young talents and next generation leaders is encouraged, in particular promoting 
working opportunities for young researchers and innovators, and ensure gender balance, paving the 
way towards breakthrough developments and innovations. 
The 2024-1 Collection Date is 23 October 2024 at 12:00 - noon (CEST). Up to 70 new COST Actions 
are to be approved, subject to available budget. 
The Proposal Template (Technical Annex) and the Applicant’s Guidelines for submitting COST Action 
proposals are available from the COST website under Funding Documents & Guidelines. The Technical 
Annex of the proposal is maximum 15 pages long and proposers have the advantage of a single-stage 
submission process. Proposals must be submitted electronically via the e-COST online submission tool. 
Proposers will be able to submit their proposals until the Collection Date. 
Proposers are encouraged to contact their COST National Coordinator (CNC) for additional information 
and guidance – see www.cost.eu/cnc. 
 
1 COST receives financial support from the EU RTD framework programme, Horizon Europe. The COST Association, integrating 
governance, management and implementing functions, provides for the administrative, scientific and technical support in the 
operation of COST rules and procedures and the management of COST Actions. 
