--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 
II 
– 
LEVEL 
A: 
DEFINITIONS 
AND 
ABBREVIATIONS 
APPLICABLE 
THROUGHOUT 
COST IMPLEMENTATION RULES 
 
GLOSSARY 
HISTORY OF CHANGES 
Version 
Publication date 
Changes 
1.0 
01.11.2021 
Initial version 
This document forms the Annex II of the Rules and Principles for 
COST activities 
 
 
Action Chair and Action 
Vice-Chair  
The individuals elected by the Management Committee of a COST Action 
to, respectively, coordinate and implement the Action or assist the Chair in 
those tasks. 
Action 
Grant 
Agreement 
(AGA) 
The agreement between the COST Association and the Grant Holder that 
governs the administrative and financial implementation of the COST 
Action. 
Action Participant 
Any person being a Management Committee member, a Management 
Committee Observer, a Working Group member, or an ad-hoc contributor 
to a COST Action. 
Action Rapporteur 
An independent expert assigned to carry out the monitoring or final 
assessment of a COST Action outputs based on their scientific and 
technological expertise 
Action results 
Any tangible proceeding, scientific or otherwise, to which the Action and/or 
the Action activities provided a material contribution. 
Affiliation 
Any form of established recognised relationship between the individual and 
a legal entity 
Background Information 
any tangible or intangible input, from data to know-how that exist before 
the COST activity (including COST Action activity) started and that is 
needed to implement the COST activity (including COST Action activity) or 
to exploit its results. 
Business Plan 
For the purposes of the CIG the following definition of Business Plan 
applies: Business Plan means a written document that describes in detail 
how an innovation is going to reach the users. A business plan defines the 
overall strategy for bringing the innovation to the users and lays out an 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 2 
appropriate written plan from a marketing, advocacy, communication, or 
promotion. 
Close relative 
A first degree relative or any person that is dependent on an Action 
participant. 
Collection Date 
The final date when the proposals for new COST Actions submitted during 
a certain period are gathered and sent for evaluation. 
Committee 
of 
Senior 
Officials (CSO)  
The supreme body of the COST Association.  
Communication of Action 
results 
Communication of Action results: sharing Action results with audiences 
outside the scientific community, including but not limited to industry or 
SMEs, policy makers, the media, interest groups, standardisation bodies 
and the general audience. 
Conflict of Interests 
Any situation where any person, being involved in the conduct of the COST 
activities or susceptible to influence it has, directly or indirectly, a financial, 
economic or other personal interest which might compromise or be 
perceived to compromise their impartiality and independence in the context 
of the COST activities. 
Core Group 
Individuals elected by the Management Committee of a COST Action for 
exercising functions of the Management Committee as defined in a 
delegation of powers 
COST 
The COST Association, including COST Governance and COST 
Administration. 
COST Action 
The COST pan-European networking instrument allowing their participants 
to develop jointly their ideas and new initiatives in a field or topic of 
common interest. 
COST Administration  
The personnel of the COST Association acting under the authority of the 
Director of the COST Association and responsible for the fulfilment of the 
Association’s administrative tasks and implementation of the COST 
activities and the COST Governance’s decisions, policies and plans. 
COST Cooperating Member Any Non-European State admitted to the COST Association as a COST 
Cooperating Member as per article 7 of the COST Association Statutes. 
COST F/C Members 
COST Full or Cooperating Members 
COST Full Member  
 
Any European State admitted to the COST Association as a COST Full 
Member as per article 6 of the COST Association Statutes.  
COST Governance 
The CSO and the EB of the COST Association 
COST Grant System (CGS) 
The COST decentralised management scheme, under which COST 
Actions are funded through a Grant provided by the COST Association to 
the COST Action. 
COST Inclusiveness Target 
Countries (ITC) 
Countries or Regions of the COST Full Members and associated countries 
as defined by the EC as depicted in Annex I of the present Rules.  
Individuals affiliated to legal entities therein vested may benefit from 
dedicated support that enables participation in COST activities.  
COST Members 
States being Members of the COST Association. There are three 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
 3 
categories of members: COST Full Members, COST Cooperating 
Members and COST Partner Members. 
COST National Coordinator 
(CNC)  
 
An individual appointed by a COST Member to serve as interface/relay 
between the COST Association and the COST Member’s national 
communities, in charge of nominating the Management Committee 
Members or Observers of their COST Member and experts from their 
COST Full or Cooperating Member for the Review Panels. 
COST 
Partner 
Member 
(CPM) 
A non-European State admitted to the COST Association as a COST 
Partner Member as per article 8 of the COST Association Statutes.   
COST Principles 
A set of principles defined in the Rules and Principles for COST activities 
that apply throughout all COST activities to all its actors and whose breach 
may lead to sanctions defined in the Rules and Principles for COST 
activities. 
COST Scientific Committee 
(SC) 
Committee created by the CSO for advisory purposes on the scientific and 
technological orientation of COST. It shall serve in the fulfilment of COST’s 
objectives, supporting COST in its science and technology activities, 
contributing to secure recognition of COST as a key organisation driving 
scientific excellence in Europe and beyond underpinning the fulfilment of 
the European Research Area within a globalised world. 
Dissemination Conference 
A networking activity that can receive financial support from COST. 
A grant awarded by the Management Committee to an individual to present 
the COST Action’s work and results at an international well recognised 
conference organised by third parties. 
Dissemination 
of 
Action 
results 
Sharing Action results with the scientific community, not limited to the 
field(s) or discipline(s) covered by the Action. 
EC 
European Commission 
EU 
European Union 
EU 
Institutions, 
Bodies, 
Offices 
and 
Agencies 
(EC/EU) 
A body defined accordingly by the EU. 
A list of the EU Bodies, Offices and Agencies may be found at 
http://europa.eu/european-union/about-eu/agencies_en 
European 
RTD 
Organisation (Eur RTD Org) 
The intergovernmental scientific research organisations whose members 
are States, the majority of which are COST Members. 
The recognition of European RTD Organisations status is subject to COST 
Administration approval.  
Executive Board (EB) 
The body in charge of the management of the COST Association, including 
the administration, organisation, human resources and financial 
management of the COST Association. 
Force majeure  
Any unforeseeable and exceptional situation or event beyond the control 
of a concerned individual or legal entity, which prevents them from 
performing any of their obligations in the frame of a COST activity.  
Force majeure relates to circumstances not attributable to error or 
negligence of the concerned individual or legal entity and that could not 
have been avoided by the exercise of due diligence. Deficiencies in 
equipment or material or delays in making it available, labour disputes, 


--- Page 4 ---
 
 
 4 
strikes or financial problems cannot be invoked as unforeseeable 
circumstances unless they derive directly from a relevant case of 
unforeseeable circumstances.  
Foreground information 
See Action results 
Grant Awarding Coordinator An individual elected by the Management Committee of a COST Action to 
act as coordinator of the awarding process of grants to be awarded in their 
COST Action.  
Grant Holder (GH) 
The legal entity responsible for the administrative and financial 
implementation of the COST Action. 
Grant 
Holder 
Financial 
Representative  
The individual from the Grant Holder Institution who has the legal authority 
to financially commit the institution in question and to validate the expenses 
listed in financial reports.  
Grant 
Holder 
Legal 
Representative  
The individual from the Grant Holder Institution who bears the legal 
authority to sign the COST Action Grant Agreement (e.g., the Rector of a 
University). 
Grant Holder Manager 
The individual from the Grant Holder Institution who is responsible for 
overseeing the administrative management of the COST Action and is the 
primary user, on behalf of the Grant Holder, of the e-COST Action 
management tool. 
Grant 
Holder 
Scientific 
Representative (GH SR) 
The Management Committee Member or Observer affiliated with the Grant 
Holder of a COST Action.  
Grant Period 
The duration defined in the Action Grant Agreement during which the 
COST Action budget shall be spent in accordance with the Work and 
Budget Plan.  
Independent 
External 
Expert (iEE) 
An independent expert assigned to carry out the remote peer-review 
evaluation of proposals based on their scientific and technological 
expertise. 
Innovation 
For the purposes of the CIG, the following definition of innovation applies: 
Innovation means a new or improved product, process, service, 
organisational method, or policy approach that constitutes a state-of-the-
art change in the sector or policy area in which the actor operates 
(European Parliament: “Mainstreaming Innovation Funding in the EU 
Budget” 18/4/2019).  
International 
Organisation 
(IO) 
Any Intergovernmental Organisation governed by international law. 
European RTD organisations or EU bodies, offices, or agencies shall not 
be considered International Organisation in the COST framework. 
International 
Partner 
Countries (IPC) – Third 
States 
States that are neither COST Members nor COST Near Neighbour 
Countries. 
ITC Conference  
A networking activity that can receive financial support from COST. 
A grant awarded by the Management Committee to a young researcher or 
innovator affiliated in an ITC or a NNC, to present their own work at an 
international well recognised conference organised by third parties. 
Main Proposer 
The representative of a network of proposers who submit a proposal for a 


--- Page 5 ---
 
 
 5 
COST Action in response to the Open Call. 
Management 
Committee 
(MC) 
The committee responsible for the management of a COST Action. 
Management 
Committee 
Member 
An individual nominated by the CNC of their COST Full or Cooperating 
Member in the Management Committee of a COST Action. 
Management 
Committee 
Observer 
An individual nominated by the CNC of their COST Partner Member or the 
Responsible for Nomination of a Specific Organisation in the Management 
Committee of a COST Action. 
Mandatory 
Leadership 
positions   
Positions needed in a COST Action to assure the minimal needs of a COST 
Action, i.e.:  
• 
Positions related to the Management Committee and funding of 
the Action: Chair, Vice Chair and Grant Holder Scientific 
Representative (GH SR) – those positions shall be filled in by 
election of the Management Committee at the first Management 
Committee (MC1) meeting, 
• 
Positions related to the coordination of the WGs defined by the 
Action: Working Group Leaders,  
• 
Position related to Grant awarding: Grant Awarding Coordinator,  
• 
Position related to dissemination and communication: Science 
Communication Coordinator.  
MC1 
First meeting of the Management Committee of a COST Action 
Meeting 
A networking activity that can receive financial support from COST. 
An event organised by the COST Action, bringing together relevant 
participants either in face-to-face or virtual by virtual or hybrid means and 
aiming at achieving the Action aim and MoU objectives. 
A meeting may consist in a Management Committee, a WG, or any other 
relevant meeting. 
Memorandum 
of 
Understanding (MoU) 
The agreement approved by the CSO that describes the Action’s aims 
objectives.  
Mobility  
Physical or virtual mobility of researchers and innovators to perform 
capacity building and research coordination activities in bi/multilateral 
collaborations within the COST Action. 
Near Neighbour Country 
(NNC) 
 
Non-COST Countries as per Annex I of the present Rules. 
Individuals affiliated to legal entities therein vested may benefit from 
dedicated support that enables participation in COST Action activities.  
Non-COST Countries 
States that are not COST Members. They can be Near Neighbour 
Countries or Third States (also called International Partner Countries) 
Open Access 
Online access, provided free of charge to the end user, to research outputs 
resulting from COST activities, including COST Actions 
Open Call for proposals 
The official announcement/publication with the description of the 
objectives and criteria required for COST Action proposals to be evaluated 
and selected. The Open Call allows submitting proposals on a continuous 
basis; the publication indicates the Collection Date. 


--- Page 6 ---
 
 
 6 
Open Science 
An approach to the scientific process based on open cooperative work and 
diffusing knowledge 
Responsible for nomination 
The CNC of a COST Member or the individual in charge of nominating their 
Management Committee Observer within a Specific Organisation having 
joined a COST Action 
Review Panel 
A group of Review Panel Members established ad hoc in after each 
Collection Date to ensure the quality of the independent External Expert 
evaluation outcome and resolve potential differences in their opinions and 
to prepare a shortlist of proposals with their validated consensus reports 
and marks for examination and selection by the Scientific Committee. 
Review Panel Member 
An active researcher, engineer or scholar, previously nominated by the 
COST National Coordinator of their COST Full and Cooperating Member, 
assigned to a Review Panel. 
Reviewing Procedure 
Any evaluation, selection, monitoring or assessment procedure of a COST 
activity 
Science 
Communication 
Coordinator 
An individual elected by the Management Committee of a COST Action to 
act as coordinator for science communication and dissemination of the 
COST Action outputs. 
Science 
Communication 
Plan 
A 
written 
document 
including 
an 
appropriate 
Communication, 
Dissemination and Valorisation strategy as well as a plan for the 
implementation of this strategy to be adopted by the Action MC.  
SESA 
Submission, Evaluation, Selection and Approval of COST Actions’ 
proposals. 
Short-Term 
Scientific 
Mission (STSM) 
A networking activity that can receive financial support from COST. 
A grant awarded by the Management Committee to an individual for 
supporting physical mobility aiming at capacity building and transfer of 
knowledge through bilateral/multilateral collaborations during a research 
stay in a different country. 
Specific Organisations 
The European Commission, EU bodies, offices and agencies, the 
European RTD Organisations and International Organisations 
Training School  
A networking activity that can receive financial support from COST. 
An event organised by the COST Action, bringing together relevant 
participants either in face-to-face or virtual by virtual or hybrid means and 
providing highly specialised training. 
Valorisation 
of 
Action 
results 
Utilising Action results for the improvement of a product, process or system 
beyond the strict scientific realm. 
Virtual Mobility 
A networking activity that can receive financial support from COST.  
A grant awarded by the Management Committee to an individual for 
supporting activities aiming at capacity building and transfer of knowledge 
through bilateral/multilateral collaborations in a virtual setting, when in-
person presence is not necessary for the activity. 
Virtual Networking Support    A support activity that can receive financial support from COST. 
A grant awarded by the Management Committee to an individual for 
supporting 
the 
Management 
Committee 
in 
the 
definition 
and 


--- Page 7 ---
 
 
 7 
implementation of the virtual and hybrid networking strategy.  
Work and Budget Plan 
(WBP) 
The detail of the planned activities and the budget allocated to each for the 
given Grant Period, defined, agreed, and approved by the Management 
Committee.  
Forms an Annex to the Action Grant Agreement. 
Working Group (WG) 
A group of individuals participating in a COST Action on the long-term 
whose activity, composition and leadership shall be defined by the 
Management Committee of a COST Action to achieve the Action aims and 
objectives. 
Working Group leader 
An individual elected by Management Committee of a COST Action to act 
as leader of a specific Working Group. 
Young 
Researcher 
and 
Innovator 
A researcher or innovator under the age of 40. 
___________________ 
 
