--- Page 1 ---
 
To: CIG decision-making committee   
 
 
 
 
 
From: EasyPay Albania sh.p.k. 
Date: 13/5/2024 
Letter of support for COST Innovators Grant (CIG): “VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual analytics 
for  Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact”  
Dear members of the CIG committee,  
As the founder and CEO of EasyPay Albania, I am writing to show our great support for the 
VisionXAI project, "Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in European 
Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact.". We at EasyPay take pride in being the leading 
Electronic Money Issuer licensed from the Central Bank of Albania for the past 13 years. Our 
mission is to make mobile payments and money transfers seamless and widely accessible. 
We empower people and businesses to pay over 60 services, get paid, spend, and transfer 
money with our online and physical presence of more than 550 agents around the country.  
In the last years, we have invested heavily in including artificial intelligence models into our 
internal decision making processes and client-facing applications and VisionXAI project goes 
in line with our ideas and commitments for ethical AI. As the project is focused on meeting 
the regulatory requirements and policy impacts of the EU directives with the development 
of a visual analytics tool, it serves as a next step towards more transparency. With the ever-
changing regulatory landscapes, the need for a dependable tool that ensures compliance 
and offers intuitive visualizations of AI-generated insights becomes essential. 
Easypay Albania has invested since the early days into financial education of all stakeholders 
in the financial market and we highly support the goal of VisionXAI into bridging the gap 
between complicated XAI standards and practical financial applications in real-life scenarios. 
With our support, we also see the opportunity in the future to assist the team into 
developing the next steps of XAI standard. We have high expectations for this collaboration 
and we are looking forward to evaluate the results of the project.  
Sincerely, 
Linda Shomo 
Founder & CEO of Easypay Albania  
