--- Page 1 ---
Truway Holdings Ltd t/a The Entrepreneur Studio, Adamstown, Lucan Co Dublin, Ireland 
T: +353 860 300400 E: .hello@tes.team  W: https://theentrepreneur.studio/  
 
 
 
 
To: Prof. Dr. Joerg Osterrieder 
Action Chair COST Action CA19130 
Submitter CIG Grant Application 
 
Institute for Applied Data Science & Finance 
Bern University of Applied Sciences 
3005 Bern, Switzerland 
 
Subject: Letter of Support for the VisionXAI Project 
Dear Prof. Dr. Joerg Osterrieder, 
The Entrepreneur Studio (TES) is pleased to endorse the VisionXAI project, an 
innovative initiative under the COST Action CA19130 aimed at enhancing the 
standards of Explainable Artificial Intelligence within the European financial sector. 
TES works with the Entrepreneurs and investors who are involved in building 
different applications and investments respectively, we recognize the significant 
value that VisionXAI proposes to bring to the AI industry. 
 
The increasing integration of AI technologies in financial and other services has 
presented unique challenges, particularly in the realms of transparency and 
accountability for Al-assisted decision-making. VisionXAI's development of a visual 
analytics tool to enhance interpretability addresses a critical need for clear, 
comprehensible insights into Al-driven financial decisions. This tool is not only vital 
for maintaining the trust to services offered by our members in the finance sector, 
but also for ensuring their rigorous adherence to evolving EU regulatory standards, 
thus making it highly relevant to their operations. 
 
Our support for VisionXAI is driven by the potential we see in its application to 
specific use cases in our members' operations. These include improved risk 
assessment models, enhanced support for our members' clients through more 
personalized AI interactions, and more robust compliance tools that can predict and 
mitigate potential breaches of standards before they occur. By integrating VisionXAI 
into their operations, our members will set new benchmarks for operational 
excellence and customer satisfaction. 
 
Furthermore, TES is keen to contribute to the VisionXAI project by assessing the 
outcomes of the project that are relevant to our members' business activities, and 
providing the necessary interaction and feedback for the refinement and adoption


--- Page 2 ---
Truway Holdings Ltd t/a The Entrepreneur Studio, Adamstown, Lucan Co Dublin, Ireland 
T: +353 860 300400 E: .hello@tes.team  W: https://theentrepreneur.studio/  
 
 
 
 
of these outcomes. In particular, we would be open to bringing you in contact with 
members of TES that could potentially offer technical expertise and real-world testing 
environments to assist in refining the tool's functionalities, or access to anonymized 
financial datasets that could further the development and testing phases of the project. 
 
In conclusion, TES fully supports the VisionXAI project and its objectives. We are excited 
about the potential transformations this tool can bring to the landscape of European 
finance and to our members in particular, driving forward our commitment to innovation, 
transparency, and regulatory compliance in the private business sector. We urge the 
CIG committee to provide the necessary support for this initiative. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Manmeet Abroll 
Founder & CEO 
The Entrepreneur Studio 
 
 
