--- Page 1 ---
Center for Digital and Decentralized Finance (C2DF) 
Research center hosted by Institut Louis Bachelier 
Palais Brongniart - 28, place de la bourse 
Paris, France 
 
 
To: CIG decision making committee 
From: Center for Digital and Decentralized Finance (C2DF)  
@ Institut Louis Bachelier 
Date: 2024-05-02 
 
 
Letter of support for COST Innovators Grant (CIG): “VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual analytics for 
Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact” 
 
 
Dear members of the CIG committee, 
 
The Institut Louis Bachelier (ILB) is a French association, created in 2008 at the instigation of 
the French Treasury and Caisse des Dépôts. The DNA of the Louis Bachelier Network, 
comprising the ILB and two associated foundations (Fondation du Risque and Institut 
Europlace de Finance), is scientific research that promotes sustainable development in 
Economics and Finance. The Center for Digital and Decentralized Finance (C2DF) is an 
applied research center hosted by ILB since 2024. Its purpose is to foster research in 
mathematics and finance directed toward digital finance and blockchain/DeFi. It aims to 
position itself at the intersection of academic research, public authorities as well as startups 
and financial institutions. 
 
Artificial Intelligence is being increasingly used in Finance with applications such as risk 
management, investment decision, customer relationship management and service 
automation in general. The need for explainable AI has been demonstrated over the recent 
years but we are yet to see widely adopted standards in compliance with the data and 
financial regulations. 
 
VisionXAI’s proposal is perfectly aligned with the challenge outlined previously. Its focus on 
regulatory compliance is important asset. Indeed, we believe that promising use cases of AI 
should not be implemented without compliance with existing regulations. 
 
Furthermore, standards are a must-have in an increasingly complex financial system. They 
would facilitate the implementation of use cases while simultaneously help regulators 
conduct compliance audits. 
 
The C2DF research center is committed to advanced research on the topic of the new 
finance, including AI applications in finance. As we witness the accelerating digitization of 
financial services, the importance of responsible AI use cannot be overstated. Therefore, we 
enthusiastically endorse the CIG application put forth by VisionXAI as an integral component 
of our collective efforts to shape the future of finance. 
 
Sincerely, 
Louis Bertucci 
Head of C2DF at ILB 
 
