--- Page 1 ---
 
 www.ibas.world   ◌   Digital Payments   ◌   Remittances   ◌   Loans   ◌   Investment adviser                       Pg 1 / 2   
 
 
To: CIG Decision-Making Committee 
Action Chair COST Action CA19130 
Submitter CIG Grant Application 
 
Institute for Applied Data Science & Finance 
Bern University of Applied Sciences 
3005 Bern, Switzerland 
 
 
Letter of support for COST Innovators Grant (CIG): “VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual analytics for Establishing XAI 
Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact”  
 
Dear members of the CIG committee, 
 
IBAS was born in 2019, brought to life by a passionate group of visionaries determined to revolutionize the 
financial landscape, worldwide, starting from Kosovo. With unwavering ambition and dedication, we obtained 
a license from the Central Bank, establishing ourselves as a premier electronic money issuer and credit provider 
for payments. Later on we expanded our license with Investment Adviser for buying oe selling shares, bonds 
and convertible bonds. From the very beginning, IBAS has been a pioneer in cutting-edge technology, 
trailblazing disruptive innovations that redefine payment transfers, money transfers, and credit services. Our 
relentless pursuit of innovation and excellence culminated in a resounding victory at the esteemed ICT Awards 
in 2021 for innovation, where we proudly claimed the top prize. 
At IBAS, we firmly believe in shaping a brighter future for finance, where accessibility, convenience, and 
efficiency know no bounds (https://ibas.world/about-us/)  
We are aware of the application submitted by Prof. Dr. Jörg Osterrieder from Bern Business School for the 
COST Innovator Grant with the title "VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in 
European Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact," which aligns with our business goals and current activities. 
On the project's aim and scope, we have been informed that: 
• 
VisionXAI seeks to create a visual analytics tool that enhances the interpretability and standards of XAI 
in the European financial sector. 
• 
The project is geared towards meeting regulatory requirements and policy impacts, ensuring alignment 
with EU directives. 
• 
It is designed to be a scalable solution that bridges the gap between technical XAI approaches and 
practical financial applications. 
• 
VisionXAI aims to foster trust and transparency in AI-driven financial decisions by offering clear, user-
friendly interpretations. 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 www.ibas.world   ◌   Digital Payments   ◌   Remittances   ◌   Loans   ◌   Investment adviser                       Pg 2 / 2   
• 
The initiative also intends to address bias detection and mitigation within AI systems, promoting fairness 
and data integrity. 
IBAS WORLD 
As a company, it is essential to support the next generation. Kosovo has a large part of the young population, and the 
ICT indicators show it better than other countries in the region, so we are always looking for and supporting young 
talents and researchers. The support of Public universities is always within the framework of our priorities; therefore, you 
have our support in this application. As a company, we expect in the future various collaborations with COST ACTION 
19130, offering the experiences of our staff both in terms of technology and finance. 
We wholeheartedly endorse the COST Innovator Grant application for VisionXAI, recognizing the significant 
role such a tool will play in the financial sector. This tool's importance is underscored by its potential to bring 
clarity and accountability to AI-driven financial decisions, aligning with our dedication to responsible and 
transparent business practices.  
 
With this letter, we confirm that we are very interested in the proposed solution, and we look forward to 
assessing the results of the project revenant for our business activities. 
 
Sincerely,  
Gazmend Selmani, Founder and Solution Architect 
 
 
Digitally signed by 'C=SI, SN=Selmani, G=Gazmend, SERIALNUMBER=1004187039, CN=Gazmend Selmani [SIG]'
Date: 2024.05.09 18:43:23 +02:00
