--- Page 1 ---
To: CIG decision making committee  
From: ONEEF - OSSERVATORIO NAZIONALE DI EDUCAZIONE ECONOMICO FINANZIARIA 
Date: 10/05/2024 
 
Letter of Support for VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in 
European Finance  
 
 
 
 
Dear members of the CIG committee, 
I am writing as the Scientific Director of ONEEF, the National Observatory of Economic and Financial 
Education to express strong support for the VisionXAI project application, submitted under the COST 
action CA19130 – CIG program.  
We believe this project holds immense potential to boost the European financial sector by fostering 
explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) and establishing critical standards for its responsible use. 
Explainability is extremely relevant to provide interpretable results and to foster a fair use of AI in the 
financial sector, to include households and citizen in the financial system and providing transparent 
tools that can be understood by the citizen is vital.  
It is well known that in the financial industry, trust with customers is extremely important and essential 
to the existence of financial contracts. Artificial intelligence (AI) can be used to improve financial 
products and services, as well as to improve financial knowledge, but this should not be at the expense 
of trust and transparency. Customers need to understand how financial decisions are made and how 
their data is used. Explainable AI plays a critical role in achieving this transparency. By implementing 
explainable AI, financial institutions can increase the transparency of their processes and give 
customers insight into why certain financial decisions are made. This transparency not only builds 
trust, but also empowers customers to make more informed decisions about their finances as 
recommended by several institutions such aas the OECD and the World Bank. Indeed, AI tools can help 
individuals understand the outcomes of their potential different financial choices, empowering them 
to make informed decisions aligned with their goals and values. 
These objectives are in line with the goals of ONEEF.  
ONEEF is a monitoring project of financial and economic education programs implemented in Italy. It 
was born in 2016 from a multidisciplinary research project conceived by a group of researchers from 
the University of Milan-Bicocca and the University of Udine and developed in collaboration with the 
Economics and Legality Table of the MIUR, the Foundation for Financial and Savings Education (FEduF) 
and UnipolSai Assicurazioni, dedicated to the monitoring of economic and financial education courses 
implemented in the Italian context. The aim is to provide a monitoring, documentation and online 


--- Page 2 ---
archive service of basic information on educational and awareness-raising projects on economics and 
finance, including topics related to taxation, active citizenship, investment, gambling, legality, social 
security, planning and related issues. 
Sincerely,  
Emanuela Rinaldi  
Scientific Director  
ONEEF - OSSERVATORIO NAZIONALE DI EDUCAZIONE ECONOMICO FINANZIARIA  
 
 
 
 
Emanuela E. Rinaldi, PhD 
Professoressa Associata in Sociologia dei Processi Culturali e Comunicativi 
Dipartimento di Scienze Economico-Aziendali e Diritto per l'economia 
Università degli Studi di Milano-Bicocca 
Via Bicocca degli Arcimboldi, 8. 
20126 Milano (Italia) 
tel +39 02 6448.3013 
emanuela.rinaldi@unimib.it  
https://oneef.unimib.it/  
 
 
