--- Page 1 ---
 
 
„Investicijų ir verslo 
garantijos“, Ltd 
Konstitucijos pr. 7 
09308 Vilnius 
Phone +370 5 210 7510 
info@invega.lt 
www.invega.lt 
Registered entity No 
110084026 
The Register of Legal Entities 
managed by VĮ Registrų 
centras (Centre of Registers, 
a state-owned enterprise), 
address Lvivo g. 25, Vilnius 
 
 
  
 
 
 
To: CIG decision making committee 
 
From: “Investiciju ir verslo garantijos”, Ltd 
(INVEGA) 
 
 
2024-05-13   Nr. (5.01)- 
 
 
 
Letter of Support: for VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards 
in European Finance 
 
 
Dear Members of the CIG Committee, 
 
INVEGA, being a sole National Promotional Institution in Lithuania with the main objectives to 
provide financial services, implement and manage financial and other forms of financing business, 
is writing to express our strong support for the VisionXAI project, a Consortium application 
submitted under the COST action CA19130 – CIG program. We believe this project holds immense 
potential to significantly benefit the European financial sector by fostering Explainable Artificial 
Intelligence (XAI) and establishing critical standards for its responsible use. 
 
We believe that this project aligns with our institution’s mission to promote the growth and 
competitiveness of Lithuanian businesses, our current financing activities and will be a valuable 
asset to the financial sector. 
 
The increasing reliance on AI in financial decision-making necessitates solutions to address the 
inherent opacity of these systems. This lack of transparency hinders trust among FinTech sector. 
VisionXAI's proposed visual analytics tool presents a compelling answer to this challenge. 
 
INVEGA recognizes the significant advantages VisionXAI's tool offers: 
• 
Enhanced Trust and Transparency: regulators and companies will be empowered to ensure 
compliance with financial policies. Analysts can gain deeper insights, and end-users can 
comprehend the rationale behind AI-driven results. This fosters trust and strengthens 
governance in the use of AI. 
• 
User-Centric Design: The tool focuses on user-specific interpretations, ensuring clear 
communication of AI-driven decisions. 
• 
Regulatory Alignment: VisionXAI's tool will be designed to ensure data, models, and 
interpretations adhere to current financial regulations. 
• 
Bias Detection and Mitigation: The project intends to address bias detection and mitigation 
within AI systems, promoting fairness and data integrity. 
 
As VisionXAI's focus on policy integration throughout the development cycle – from data collection 
to model output we believe that this could be very useful for FinTech and other sectors in 
Lithuania. This approach will enhance transparency, address bias, and optimize decision-making 
processes within the financial industry. 
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
 
 
 
UAB „Investicijų ir verslo 
garantijos“ 
Konstitucijos pr. 7 
09308 Vilnius 
Tel. +370 5 210 7510 
info@invega.lt 
www.invega.lt 
Juridinio asmens kodas  
110084026 
Juridinių asmenų registras, 
tvarkomas  
VĮ Registrų centro, esančio   
Lvivo g. 25, Vilnius 
 
 
INVEGA firmly believe that VisionXAI project has the potential to become an essential component 
of AI-driven finance, facilitating broader adoption across institutions, regulatory bodies, and 
individual users. We urge the CIG committee to view this project favourably and grant it the 
necessary support to move forward. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dainius Vilčinskas 
 
