--- Page 1 ---
 
Bank of Lithuania, Gedimino pr. 6, LT-01103 Vilnius, Lithuania 
For correspondence: Totorių g. 4, LT-01121 Vilnius, Lithuania, phone: +370 5 268 0029, email: info@lb.lt 
Information on personal data protection: https://www.lb.lt/en/personal-data-protection 
 
 
LIETUVOS BANKAS 
BANK OF LITHUANIA 
 
 
Prof. Dr. Audrius Kabašinskas 
Dept. of Mathematical Modeling 
Kaunas University of Technology 
Studentu 50-144, LT - 51368 
Kaunas, Lithuania 
 
 
     No      
[data] No  
 
 
 
Letter of Support: COST Innovators Grant (CIG) Application 
VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in European 
Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact 
 
 
 
 
The Bank of Lithuania (BoL) is the central bank of Lithuania, a part of Eurosystem. The 
mission of the Bank of Lithuania is to bring benefits to society. To accomplish this, we rely on 
highly-qualified employees, financial and technological resources. As part of the Eurosystem, 
we cooperate with the European Central Bank and other euro area central banks to make 
decisions on euro area monetary policy and its implementation.  
Implementing its strategy, BoL aims to increase the value of the financial services to the 
consumers, to ensure sustainable growth and to keep the pace of constant progress in a 
digital economy. 
 
We are aware of the application submitted by Prof. Dr. Jörg Osterrieder from Bern Business 
School together with partners, among which is Prof. Dr. Audrius Kabašinskas from Kaunas 
University of Technology, for the COST Innovator Grant with the title "VisionXAI: Pioneering 
Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused 
Impact," which aligns with our institution goals and activities. 
 
On the project's aim and scope, we have been informed that: 
• 
VisionXAI seeks to develop market ready visual analytics tool that enhances the 
interpretability and standards of XAI in the European financial sector ensuring alignment 
with EU directives. 
• 
VisionXAI aims to foster trust and transparency in AI-driven financial decisions by offering 
user-specific interpretations and visualizations. 
• 
Projects aims to help users to evaluate how well the data, model, and interpretations 
adhere to current financial regulations. 
• 
The initiative also intends to address bias detection and mitigation within AI systems, 
promoting fairness and data integrity. 
 
We endorse the COST Innovator Grant application for VisionXAI, recognizing the impact of the 
AI driven solutions in the financial sector. Being mindful about the consumers of the financial 
services, we understand that explainability of AI driven decisions and services is the major 
success factor of transparent AI use. 
 
VisionXAI tool idea is well aligned with the BoL strategic directions and ambitions to promote 
innovations in the financial sector, specifically taking into that it will be tailored for European 


--- Page 2 ---
financial sector and will be developed with strong user centricity in mind. 
With this letter, we confirm that we are very interested in the proposed solution, and we look 
forward to assessing the results of the project within the focus our organization activities. 
 
Sincerely 
 
 
 
 
Gintarė Žilinskienė 
 
Head of Center for Digital Excellence of the Bank of Lithuania 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gintarė Žilinskienė, tel.+370 667 73 685, el. p. gzilinskiene@lb.lt 
