--- Page 1 ---
 
 
To: Prof. Dr. Joerg Osterrieder 
Action Chair COST Action CA19130 
Submitting to: CIG Grant Application 
 
From: PrivacyEngine Ltd 
Date: 02/05/2024 
 
 
Letter of Support for VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in European 
Finance 
 
Dear members of the CIG committee, 
PrivacyEngine wishes to express strong support for the VisionXAI project, a Consortium application 
submitted under the COST action CA19130 – CIG program.  
We are an Irish-based company dedicated to empowering small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with 
user-friendly solutions for data privacy, security and more recently Artificial Intelligence (AI) compliance. 
Understanding and adhering to European regulations can be a daunting task for SMEs across Europe. 
PrivacyEngine offers a comprehensive suite of tools and resources designed to simplify the compliance 
process. Our solutions include: 
• 
Automated compliance tools: Streamline data mapping, risk assessments, and policy development. 
• 
Expert guidance: Access to data privacy and security professionals for personalized support and 
advice. 
• 
Educational resources: Gain insights and practical knowledge through webinars, workshops, and 
online materials. 
We are aware of the application submitted by Prof. Jörg Osterrieder from Bern Business School for the COST 
Innovator Grant with the title "VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in 
European Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact," which aligns with our business goals and current activities 
as we have a number of financial and Fintech customers. We have witnessed our customers struggle with 
complex compliance challenges especially around transparency and due diligence regarding their AI 
systems. We want to help them. 
We believe this project holds immense potential to boost the European financial sector by fostering 
explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) and establishing critical standards for its responsible use. By being 
involved, we are excited to work with the COST Action to move the research on XAI forward in Europe. By 
providing increased transparency in AI decision-making, our clients can proactively identify and address 
potential non-compliance issues, reducing risk and minimizing the likelihood of regulatory penalties. This 
strengthens their position as responsible AI users, fostering trust and confidence with their stakeholders. 
VisionXAI's proposed visual analytics tool is a compelling answer to this challenge. Regulators, like the data 
protection supervisory authorities, would be able to ensure compliance with financial policies, our clients 
would gain deeper insights, and data subjects would comprehend the rationale behind AI-driven results 
better. This tool has the potential to foster trust and strengthen governance in the use of AI. 
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
We urge the CIG committee to view this project favourably and grant it the 
necessary support to move it forward. 
Yours sincerely, 
Dr Maria Moloney 
Chief Researcher and AI Specialist  
 
 
 
 
 
+353 (0) 1-517-6258 
 
 
Maria.Moloney@privacyengine.io 
 
 
www.privacyengine.io  
 
 
77 Sir John Rogerson's Quay, Dublin 2, D02 F540 
 
