--- Page 1 ---
 
 
To: CIG Decision-Making Committee 
 
Date: May 13, 2024 
Letter of support for COST Innovators Grant (CIG): “VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual 
analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused 
Impact” 
Dear members of the CIG committee,  
SGH Warsaw School of Economics is one of the leading Polish universities. SGH offers courses 
leading to bachelor's or master's degrees. It also provides programs for doctoral and 
postgraduate degrees. SGH has always been open to exchanging knowledge and sharing 
educational and research experience with other academic centers. SGH cooperates with over 
300 universities all over the world and takes part in research activities conducted in 
collaboration with centers abroad. Each year academics from various countries visit SGH to 
attend seminars and conferences, give lectures and participate in joint research projects. 
 
We are aware of the submitted application for the COST Innovator Grant entitled "VisionXAI: 
Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a Policy-
Focused Impact," which aligns with our goals and current activities. 
 
On the project's aim and scope, we have been informed that: 
• VisionXAI endeavors to develop a visual analytics platform aimed at elevating the 
interpretability and benchmarks of eXplainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) within the 
European financial domain. 
• With a focus on compliance with regulatory standards and policy implications in line 
with EU directives, the project strives to address these requirements effectively. 
• By offering a scalable solution, VisionXAI aims to bridge the divide between complex 
technical XAI methodologies and their implementation in real-world financial 
scenarios. 
• The overarching goal is to cultivate trust and transparency in AI-powered financial 
decision-making by providing lucid and accessible interpretations for users. 
 
SGH Warsaw School of Economics is teaching the future leaders in the field of economics and 
finance. We strongly support the proposed project and recommend CIG committee to grant the 
project its full support, allowing it to move forward. 
 
Sincerely, 
Professor Agnieszka Chłoń-Domińczak 
Vice Rector for Research at SGH Warsaw School of Economics 
Agnieszka Chłoń-
Domińczak
Elektronicznie podpisany przez 
Agnieszka Chłoń-Domińczak 
Data: 2024.05.13 22:20:29 
+02'00'
