--- Page 1 ---
 
Data Juice Lab spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością, z siedzibą w Warszawie, ul. Platanowa 11, 03-054 Warszawa. Zarejestrowana przez Sąd 
Rejonowy dla m.st. Warszawy w Warszawie, XIV Wydział Gospodarczy Krajowego Rejestru Sądowego pod numerem 0000741167, REGON: 
380817689, NIP: 5242869394. Kapitał zakładowy 22 200,00 zł. 
Date:15.05.2024 
 
To: CIG Decision-Making Committee 
 
Letter of support for COST Innovators Grant (CIG): “VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual 
analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused 
Impact” 
 
Dear Members of the CIG Committee, 
 
Data Juice Lab is a company that provides support in the optimal use of data and in making 
better data-driven decisions. Our mission is to show and explain different motivations for 
tracking data from mobile applications and web pages, transforming already collected data and 
use mixture of them for predictive modelling purposes, enhancing solutions in terms of 
exploratory analysis, sales strategies and verifying business solutions. We are experienced in 
the area of data driven solutions and supporting large institutions in avoiding frauds, measuring 
their risks and making better business decisions based on data analysis results. Data Juice 
Lab delivers technologies and predictive models with the use of AI, Machine Learning & 
advanced econometric and statistical methods. 
 
I am aware of the application submitted by Prof. Dr. Jörg Osterrieder from Bern Business 
School for the COST Innovator Grant with the title "VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for 
Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact," which aligns 
with our business goals and current activities. 
 
On the project's aim and scope, I have been informed that: 
• 
VisionXAI seeks to create a visual analytics tool that enhances the interpretability and 
standards of XAI in the European financial sector. 
• 
The project is geared towards meeting regulatory requirements and policy impacts, 
ensuring alignment with EU directives. 
• 
The project is designed to be a scalable solution that bridges the gap between technical 
XAI approaches and practical financial applications. 
• 
VisionXAI aims to foster trust and transparency in AI-driven financial decisions by offering 
clear, user-friendly interpretations. 
• 
The initiative also intends to address bias detection and mitigation within AI systems, 
promoting fairness and data integrity. 
 
I truly endorse the COST Innovator Grant application for VisionXAI, recognizing the significant 
role such tool will play in the financial sector. This tool's importance is underlined by its potential 
to bring clarity and accountability to AI-driven financial decisions. The project’s objectives have 
been fully aligned with our dedication to responsible and transparent business practices.  
 
I strongly support the proposed project and recommend CIG committee to grant the project its 
full support, allowing Prof. Dr. Jörg Osterrieder to unlock its full potential. 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Dominik Ogonowski 
President of Data Juice Lab 
 
Dokument podpisany
przez Dominik
Ogonowski
Data: 2024.05.15
22:30:36 CEST
Położenie: Warszawa; 03-
054; mazowieckie; Polska
