--- Page 1 ---
To: CIG Decision-Making Committee
Date: May 7, 2024
Letter of support for COST Innovators Grant (CIG): “VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual
analytics for
Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused
Impact”
Dear members of the CIG committee,
Quantum AI Foundation is a non-profit organization aiming to support education, research,
development, and collaboration in science and new technologies, especially Artificial
Intelligence and Quantum Computing, but also other fields of Mathematics and Computer
Science. The Foundation pursues its goals by organizing meetings (e.g., Warsaw Quantum
Computing Group meetup), workshops (e.g., Workshops on Quantum Computing), contests,
hackathons, and other events focusing on education and enhancing research and collaboration
in new technologies like AI and quantum computing. The Foundation also participates in the
international initiative P-TECH and organize lectures for students.
We are aware of the submitted application for the COST Innovator Grant entitled "VisionXAI:
Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in European Finance with a
Policy-Focused Impact," which aligns with our goals and current activities.
On the project's aim and scope, we have been informed that:

VisionXAI seeks to create a visual analytics tool that enhances the interpretability and
standards of XAI in the European financial sector.

The project is geared towards meeting regulatory requirements and policy impacts,
ensuring alignment with EU directives.

It is designed to be a scalable solution that bridges the gap between technical XAI
approaches and practical financial applications.

VisionXAI aims to foster trust and transparency in AI-driven financial decisions by
offering clear, user-friendly interpretations.
Quantum AI Foundation is one of the leading Polish non-profit organizations in the area of
Artificial Intelligence and Quantum Computing. I strongly support the proposed project and
recommend CIG committee to grant the project its full support, allowing to unlock its full
potential.
Sincerely,
Pawel Gora
CEO of the Quantum AI Foundation
Qualified electronic 
signature
PAWEŁ GORA
2024-05-07 20:53:30
Signed on the platform  
