--- Page 1 ---
Date: May, 17, 2024
To: CIG Decision-Making Committee
From: Aiqlabs sp. z o.o.
Letter of Support for VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI Standards in
European Finance
Dear members of the CIG committee,
Aiqlabs sp. z o.o is a data & technology house creating solutions for fintech. We use digital strategies -
big data, machine learning and cognitive solutions - to constantly create directions for the development
of financial tools. We implement our solutions in the service of consumer finance and the culture of
innovation. We want to provide our users with unique experiences that help them organize their
financial reality.
We are aware of the application submitted by Prof. Dr. Jörg Osterrieder from Bern Business School for
the COST Innovator Grant with the title "VisionXAI: Pioneering Visual Analytics for Establishing XAI
Standards in European Finance with a Policy-Focused Impact," which aligns with our business goals
and current activities.
On the project's aim and scope, we have been informed that:
●
VisionXAI seeks to create a visual analytics tool that enhances the interpretability and
standards of XAI in the European financial sector.
●
The project is geared towards meeting regulatory requirements and policy impacts, ensuring
alignment with EU directives.
●
It is designed to be a scalable solution that bridges the gap between technical XAI approaches
and practical financial applications.
●
VisionXAI aims to foster trust and transparency in AI-driven financial decisions by offering
clear, user-friendly interpretations.
●
The initiative also intends to address bias detection and mitigation within AI systems,
promoting fairness and data integrity.
We strongly support the project as modern financial markets need to adopt new technologies. It is
crucial to maintain the tools engaged in sensitive use cases as transparent as possible. Areas where
clients and their future is considered, needs special attention from researchers in order to share
benefits of newest technologies in society, so the implementation of AI based algorithms in real life
applications is proven to bring value to every single person not only for the wealthy and well educated.
In the field of the most important research area - creditworthiness assessment, where our company
develops solutions for financial markets, it is always mandatory to ensure that tools used are not only
efficient but also fair and non-discriminatory. As the tools themself are getting more and more
sophisticated, the tools for their supervision, interpretation needs to be reinvented and well established
as mandatory quality checks are equally important as the tools.
AIQLABS Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością, ul. Inflancka 11/27, 00-189 Warszawa, zarejestrowana w rejestrze przedsiębiorców,
prowadzonym przez Sąd Rejonowy dla m. st. Warszawy w Warszawie, XII Wydział Gospodarczy Krajowego Rejestru Sądowego pod
numerem KRS 551150, REGON 360301004, NIP 5252607460, kapitał zakładowy 1.100.000 złotych – opłacony w całości
Powered by AIQLABS


--- Page 2 ---
We wholeheartedly endorse the COST Innovator Grant application for VisionXAI, recognizing the
significant role such a tool will play in the financial sector. This tool's importance is underscored by its
potential to bring clarity and accountability to AI-driven financial decisions, aligning with our dedication
to responsible and transparent business practices.
With this letter, we strongly support the proposed project and recommend the CIG committee to grant
the project its full support, allowing it to unlock its full potential.
Sincerely,
Vice President of Management Board
Chief Risk Officer
Piotr Biernacki
AIQLABS Spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością, ul. Inflancka 11/27, 00-189 Warszawa, zarejestrowana w rejestrze przedsiębiorców,
prowadzonym przez Sąd Rejonowy dla m. st. Warszawy w Warszawie, XII Wydział Gospodarczy Krajowego Rejestru Sądowego pod
numerem KRS 551150, REGON 360301004, NIP 5252607460, kapitał zakładowy 1.100.000 złotych – opłacony w całości
Powered by AIQLABS
Dokument podpisany przez Piotr
Biernacki
Data: 2024.05.17 19:43:05 CEST
Signature Not Verified
