--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COST Innovators Grant 
application evaluation 
 
2024-2025 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---
 
 
       2 
CIG application reference number:  
IG19130 
 
INNOVATION 
POTENTIAL 
Comments 
Q1: To what extent does the application describe an innovation challenge, problem or need 
that is real, relevant, and timely? 
The application focuses on a relevant challenge and need, namely to design and develop a visual 
analytics tool for showing the explainability of Artificial Intelligence in the European finance sector. 
The issue is timely and points to a real and relevant societal and health related potential, although 
not accompanied by a fully clear identification of the concrete content and features of the intended 
tool. 
 
AI-computation explainability and transparency are critical in all sectors, and even more so in the 
financial sector when applied to decision-support tools. The need addressed by the application is real, 
timely and relevant. 
While not an expert, regulatory demands in this field have mushroomed and the use of AI can often 
cloud interpretation. 
Q2: To what extent is the proposed solution innovative, feasible, and adequate in addressing 
the problem or need described above? 
The anticipated approach is feasible in addressing the identified need, and the application introduces 
appropriately the claimed innovative character of the anticipated system, building on the knowledge 
and competence developed within the originating action and intending to assume a more practically 
oriented character, even if through a not fully clear and concrete identification of the anticipated 
features of the envisaged tool. This allows appreciating appropriately the claimed advance in respect 
to the state of the art in the field, although the adequacy of the chosen approach is somewhat limited 
by the not  fully clear content of the anticipated tool. 
The solution, a visualisation tool, is innovative as it applies state of the art techniques to the highly-
sensitive area of AI-driven financial applications, responding to the regulators' requirements in the 
area of AI computations explainability in financial applications. 
The proposed solution will be very helpful but not necessarily solve all the problems. 
 
EXPECTED 
IMPACT 
Comments 
Q3: To what extent does the application describe expected impacts that are both significant 
and credible (realistic)?  
Anticipated impacts are potentially relevant, although quite qualitatively introduced, missing clear 
analytical justifications to the few introduced estimations. It's overall credible that the intended tool 
could contribute to innovative solutions to support methodologies for interpreting complex, high-
dimensional financial models in a way that is both accessible to non-experts and compliant with 
evolving regulatory standards, resulting in a valuable impact. 
The application impact can be significant in enabling greater transparency  and policy alignment in 
FinTech. 
 


--- Page 3 ---
 
 
       3 
CIG will help improve things - but extent of impact is difficult to assess. Probably significant but not 
industry changing. 
Q4: To what extent is the plan for exploitation both realistic and adequate? 
The proposal indicates an overall sufficiently structured plan to bring forward the proposal after the 
end of the CIG, although not making fully clear who will take care of the deployment of the tool in the 
addressed financial market. Overall, there is a fairly well-conceived technology roadmap. The 
approach is overall sufficiently adequate to ensure an effective take-up by interested stakeholders 
and end-users. 
Exploitation plan is realistic and adequate leveraging a strong stakeholders network including 
regulators and industry. The plan emphasises policy implications for decision-support through role-
based application functionalities, based on the needs of all stakeholders, i.e. for the regulators, 
financial analysts and end-users. It includes AI-model explainability at every step of the AI-model 
development, including at the data collection phase to enable detection of potential biases in the 
dataset 
 
Plan is good but relies on some assumptions such as the involvement and the inputs of industry etc… 
 
PLAN 
FOR 
IMPLEMENT
ING THE CIG 
Comments 
Q5: To what extent are the work plan and the team appropriate for achieving the stated 
objectives of the CIG? 
The project presents a well structured and appropriately described work plan, with a clear time-
schedule, reflecting appropriately the list of activities included within the descriptive part of the project. 
COST tools will be suitably deployed. Envisaged tasks are overall well presented, with a clear 
allocation of roles, responsibilities and involvement of the anticipated team members. The CIG team 
is composed by a variegate set of members, although presented through not fully informative profiles, 
but with skills aligned with the application scope and content. There is an overall feasible deployment 
route of the results, likely to support appropriately the achievement of the expected outcomes. 
Intellectual property aspects are appropriately considered and addressed, providing also for sharing 
of revenues proportional to the contribution of each member. 
The work plan is adequate regarding the communications and coordination activities, but ambitious 
in terms of application implementation, which is risky. The application development methodology as 
explained is state of the art, as well as the presented IP strategy. 
Team is large. Though it lacks industry participation it does have a lot of ties with industry. 
Implementation plan is very detailed. 
OVERALL MARK OF THE REMOTE EVALUATION:  
12.667 
 
